Hello, and welcome to Advance
Scene Understanding in AR.
In this video I'll introduce
the new capabilities
of ARKit and RealityKit
enabled by the LiDAR Scanner
on the new iPad Pro.
iOS and ipadOS
provide developers
with two powerful frameworks
to help you build apps for AR.
ARKit combines
positional tracking,
scene understanding,
and integration
with rendering technologies
to enable a variety
of AR experiences
using either the back-facing
or front-facing camera.
And RealityKit --
a new high-level framework
built specifically for AR --
provides photorealistic
rendering and special effects,
scalable performance,
and a Swift-based API,
making it easy to prototype
and build great AR experiences.
Today we're excited
to talk about advances
in both frameworks,
which are only made possible
by the hardware capabilities
on the new iPad Pro.
The new iPad Pro comes equipped
with a LiDAR Scanner.
This is used
to determine distance
by measuring
at nanosecond speeds
how long it takes
for light to reach an object
in front of you
and reflect back.
This is effective
up to five meters away
and operates both indoors
and outdoors.
And coupling this capability
with information captured
by the Wide and Ultra Wide
cameras gives you
an incredible understanding
of your environment.
So let's see how this improves
AR experiences
built with each of these
frameworks, starting with ARKit.
The new update to ARKit
version 3.5
delivers a number of new
features and improvements
that take full advantage
of the LiDAR Scanner
on the new iPad Pro.
Scene Geometry is a new API
that provides your apps
with a detailed topological map
of your surrounding environment.
The LiDAR Scanner
also simplifies
the AR onboarding experience
by more quickly
and more accurately
detecting surfaces.
And existing ARKit features --
including motion capture,
people occlusion,
and raycasting --
also benefit without requiring
any additional
application changes.
So let's start
with Scene Geometry.
Scene Geometry provides you
with a triangle mesh,
representing a topological
mapping of your environment.
And optionally, that mesh
can include semantic information
that classifies
what's being seen.
This includes things like tables
and chairs, floors, walls,
ceilings, the windows,
and so on.
All this information could be
used to allow occlusion
of virtual content
by real-world objects,
environment-dependent physics,
and illumination of both real
and virtual objects
in your scene.
So let's see this mapping
in action.
Here's an example being taken
from an indoor scene.
We're overlaying
the AR frame image with a mesh
being generated by ARKit,
using the LiDAR sensor.
You can see
as we sweep around the room
how quickly we're able to detect
the shape of the furniture
and the layout
of the environment.
And the colors are based
on a classification
of what the mesh overlays.
So let's take a look at the API.
Scene Geometry is enabled
through a new scene
reconstruction property
on
ARWorldTtrackingConfiguration.
Now, there's two options,
depending on what data you'd
like to have generated.
The first option is to generate
just the mesh,
meaning only the topological
information will be surfaced.
This is intended for apps doing
things like object placement,
where they don't depend on
a classification
of the surrounding objects.
The other option is
.meshWithClassification.
And as the name implies,
this adds semantic
classification
for all the Scene Geometry.
This is helpful for apps
that want different behaviors,
depending on what's
in the scene,
such as different lighting
on the floor
versus on the table.
And here down below,
you see the code;
it's pretty simple.
We're using world tracking,
and we test to verify
that we're running on a device
that supports
scene reconstruction.
If so, then we select
the mesh option here
and start running the session.
Once the session is running with
scene reconstruction enabled,
the AR session will return
AR mesh anchors.
These are just like
any other anchor,
and changes come through
the usual
AR session delegate methods,
like did add(anchor:),
did update(anchor:),
and did remove(anchor:).
And each mesh anchor represents
a local area of mesh geometry.
It's described with a transform
of the anchor
and a mesh geometry object.
An ARMeshGeometry object holds
all the information
that you'll need to represent
the surrounding environment.
Each object contains
a list of vertices,
normals, faces,
and a semantic classification
if enabled for each phase.
These are all provided
as MTLBuffers
to allow them to be directly
integrated into your renderers.
Now there's some interesting
interplay that happens
between Scene Geometry
and plane detection.
When scene reconstruction
and plane detection
are both enabled,
the mesh that's constructed
will be flattened
to match overlapping planes.
This is useful
for an object placement
where surfaces need to be
consistently flat
to allow for a smooth object
movement.
On the other hand,
if you're using Scene Geometry,
and plane detection
is not enabled,
the mesh will no longer be
flattened.
But this combination
will preserve more detail
in the meshed surfaces.
OK, so that's Scene Geometry.
Moving on, there's several
more improvements
enabled by the LiDAR Scanner.
The first is much simpler
and faster onboarding.
With the LiDAR Scanner,
planer surfaces are detected
almost instantly
and more accurately as well.
This is true even
on low-features surfaces,
like white walls.
So the result is that
the plane-detection onboarding
that previously took
a few seconds
and required some amount
of user guidance
can now occur
completely seamlessly.
And no changes are necessary.
All ARKit apps will benefit
from this
when running
on the new iPad Pro.
Existing apps will also benefit
from improved raycasting.
The enhanced scene understanding
of ARKit
allows quicker
and more accurate raycasting
against horizontal
and vertical planes.
Additionally, the new iPad Pro
can raycast
against a wider range
of surfaces than ever before.
Just set the allowing target
to estimatedPlane
and data from the LiDAR Scanner
will provide raycasting results
that match the surrounding
environment.
For example, objects can now
be placed on all surfaces
of a large chair
or a couch as seen here.
Motion Capture
and people occlusion
are also improved
due to the LiDAR Scanner
providing more accurate
depth information.
Apps using Motion Capture
will benefit
from a more accurate
scale estimation,
and the depth values
for people occlusion
are more accurate as well.
In addition, people occlusion
and the Scene Geometry API
can work together
when both features are enabled.
The very dynamic
geometry of people
can be excluded
from the scene reconstruction,
which in turn,
provides a more stable mesh
of the real-world environment.
So that's a quick look
at ARKit 3.5
on the new iPad Pro.
Scene Geometry provides
a topological map
of the environment around you.
Planer surfaces are detected
almost instantly
and more accurately,
which simplifies onboarding.
Raycasting is more accurate
and can take Scene Geometry
into account,
and Motion Capture and people
occlusion are improved as well.
ARKit is also tightly integrated
with our higher-level
AR framework called RealityKit.
RealityKit provides
photo-realistic rendering,
camera effects, animations,
physics, and a lot more.
It was built from the ground up
specifically for AR.
RealityKit takes advantage
of the new ARKit 3.5 features
and makes it really easy for you
to integrate them
into either new
or existing RealityKit apps.
These capabilities
can be accessed
through the new
scene understanding API.
It provides options for enabling
LiDAR-enhanced physics,
occlusion, and lighting,
and it's all access through some
simple settings on the ARView,
so let's take a look.
With the new iPad Pro,
RealityKit is able to determine
physics interactions
between virtual objects
in the Scene Geometry
from surfaces we detect
in the real world.
So you can have a virtual ball
bounce off of
your real-world furniture.
To do this, first you'll
generate collision shapes
for your virtual content,
the ModelEntity,
and initialize its physics body.
Then just add the physics option
to your ARView's
sceneUnderstanding.options set,
and RealityKit
will take care of the rest.
Likewise with occlusion,
RealityKit uses
the Scene Geometry
that's detected
from real-world objects,
like doorways, and tables,
chairs, and so on
to occlude the virtual objects
in your scene.
This is totally automatic.
All it takes to enable this
is to add occlusion
to the
sceneUnderstanding.options set
for your ARView.
RealityKit will take care of
everything else under the hood,
and your virtual content
will be occluded
by all the major objects
in the environment.
Here's an example of that.
Our virtual robot
is walking around on the floor.
But you'll see as the camera
moves behind the column,
the robot is occluded.
Its geometry is disappearing
from the rendering,
and that helps maintain
the illusion
of proper depth in the scene.
Now the third piece
is for lighting.
With a new RealityKit,
your virtual light sources can
illuminate real-world surfaces.
This is because we're able to
illuminate the Scene Geometry,
which is very accurately fitted
to those surfaces
with the help
of the LiDAR Scanner.
And like before,
enabling this is just as simple
as adding receivesLighting
to the ARView's
sceneUnderstanding.options set.
And finally, support for these
features extends to scenes
built in Reality Composer
as well.
Physics can be configured
to collide virtual objects
with the real world using
the Scene Geometry mesh,
and occlusion of virtual content
by real-world objects
can be enabled
in the Inspector panel.
For more information,
please visit developer.apple.com
where you'll find links
to documentation, sample code,
or developer videos
like this one, and a lot more.
Thank you for watching!